[Music]
ami how much did you know about
Anthony's life before you actually
started talking nothing he was the guy
that lived three doors down that would
walk his dog past my house I mean my
mother told us we have to move because
somebody could come and kill us there's
people that are angry I have returned to
the world of the Mafia this time to meet
the wives daughters and girlfriends of
some of the most notorious gangsters
many have never spoken publicly before
most of these women are really loving us
we're not good husbands we're halfway
good father
and wise guys should never be married
how much money would you take out to go
shopping give me a figure this much they
have money they have power so you get
caught up in the moment you do we were
given unprecedented access into their
lives it's a world many of these women
never chose nor is it one from which
they can ever entirely escape your
father's life in the Mafia you must have
brought you pain which at times seemed
absolutely intolerable okay when you're
living that life and you know you see
your dad going out and committing these
crimes it's it's obviously hard to deal
with and it's painful but you don't
realize the pain until it actually hits
your heart you know and so you actually
have some morning murdered
Amy and Anthony have been together for
six months unknown to Amy when they met
was that Anthony is a former
high-ranking member of the Colombo crime
family for whom he extorted hundreds of
thousands of dollars and committed
murder
this is Bensonhurst in Brooklyn a
notorious mob neighborhood and this is
where Anthony grew up this was a crazy
place people would die and left the
right around here people will kill him
you never find the bodies all over the
place and you had a few crews around
here that would just kill you in a
heartbeat if you didn't want to pay them
Amy you've never been to an area like
this you grew up in the Florida Keys you
have never been to New York before I
grew up between the Florida Keys and
Fort Lauderdale so just kind of beach
bum and oh we've water and boating and
fairly genteel yeah are you surprised at
the way things turned out in fact
absolutely I say it all the time I'm
like man I showed you pick'em you can
get out right now I don't want you two
to fight over this no we're not gonna
fight no later on when we get back to
hotel but Antony it's it's very
difficult looking at this area as it is
now to think of what it was like the way
you described it when you were growing
up yeah like this place right here yes
that was a bar used to be that's why I
hang out or what he said my money my
Shylock money coming out of there people
he stole me morning they bring it there
you know Friday night I would go there
and pick up my money up hang out by
everybody drinking at home what were the
consequences for those who didn't pay up
they would go pays and they would pay me
for a while then not like they'll let
them go we could too but if they kept on
playing games with my money then they
they know it was up they they would get
hurt after that
because I was a little aggressive you
describe yourself as a little aggressive
yeah what is what does that mean it
meant that when push came to shove I
shoved right away I just didn't I didn't
talk right away I would just go at the
person and deal with it that way and
then talk later on Amy are you still
surprised to hear about that kind of
aggression in the life that Anthony had
in this area yeah it's hard for me to
listen to it and hear the things cuz
that's not who I know you know I don't
know him to be to be like that I mean
it's you don't know me to be aggressive
no not not like that you know so it's
hard to hear sometimes the stories and
think like wow he actually did that
beyond the bullet holes and amid this
shattered glass it was quite a scene on
this quiet Queen Street it sound like a
string of firecrackers going off and
then somebody said that somebody was
shot across the street shots rang out as
many people were watching the ballgame
one lady was sitting in her living room
when bullets started wicka shang off her
ceiling this is one of the murders in
which anthony was involved he'd already
spent 16 years in and out of prison then
in 2011 facing life for this murder of
mafia rival joseph scoper he decided to
cooperate with the authorities he is now
a key FBI witness in cases against his
former Columbo bosses English shocking
for me to hear is just how you know when
he tells me about the different times
away I think that's like what I have a
hard time it's just like how could you
like go away and be away for you know
five years and not be around your kids
and your family and then you know come
out and jump right back into the same
thing that you were doing and then go
back again I just I can't I can't wrap
my mind around that just all the time
lost
[Music]
that's what we know that's all we know
it's that shocking to you that that was
a me still such a central part of
growing up in the life that's that's
what happened I don't know I guess as a
mom it's I just feel like you know he
just missed so much and like was it
worth it for
money
[Music]
these home videos were given to us by
Linda Scavo Linda has known nothing
except life inside the Matthew these are
pictures of her wedding day beautiful
now when you get a chance she's just
gonna give a little wave goodbye she'd
been born into one of the most notorious
families in the history of the mall I'd
come to the borough of Staten Island to
meet her her father was Greg Scarpa
senior his mafia life was caked in so
much blood that he was known as the Grim
Reaper
when were you aware that your father was
not quite like other fathers are I
always kind of knew he was different you
know from my friend's dad's he had a
different demeanor a different way the
way he dressed sit his friends dressed
they were very different he he didn't
act like a nine-to-five you know guy how
much did your father tell you about his
life in the mound he didn't keep a lot
from us um up into a certain age like
when we were younger we really didn't
understand much but as we got older you
know he was the type of guy that he
wanted to be home you know he wasn't
like these guys that are in the social
clubs that like to hang out with the men
and play cards so if you needed to have
a meeting with him and it was during the
time that he would you know normally be
home which would be after 5:30 you would
have to come to the house did you
overhear a lot about the violent world
in which he operated yeah we heard we
heard a lot of it you know someone
getting killed or someone getting a
beating or somebody having a problem
with you know someone else in the club
you know all of these things were
brought into the house and then we would
we would basically hear it all he is
absolutely the most violent mafioso in
the history of Cosa Nostra the so-called
Grim Reaper stopped counting the people
he killed personally after they passed
[Music]
for nearly 40 years
Linda's father went on what can only be
described as a killing spree to this day
no one knows how many people he killed
there isn't anything on earth that I
will hide from well back up from were
you aware that people in the community
treated you differently because you were
Greg Scarpa daughter yeah it definitely
you definitely could tell I mean no
matter where we were if people knew who
I was they treated me special you know a
couple of mishaps that I've gotten
myself into when I was young it seems
that the people that I was with took the
brunt of it what do you mean like for
example I had experimented with smoking
pot and I got caught and the main person
that I was with my dad went after him
and beat him badly almost to death and
left him on the streets what was your
reaction to that well I was devastated
because this was somebody that I really
cared about um you know as a kid he was
my he was my best friend he was being
really bad I mean he couldn't even open
his eyes well his eyes were slits like
you couldn't even see them and they were
bright blood-red so I mean he looked
like somebody he looked like a monster
what did you think about your father who
could be capable of doing this this
loving man who came home for dinner
every evening at 5:30 but who was still
capable in circumstances of doing that
to someone else I was very angry at him
for that for a long time but it's still
my father you know what was I really
gonna do I guess he figured after time I
would get over it but scars like that
things like that never really go away
you know you always have them in the
back of your mind that's an
extraordinary kind of life to survive in
yeah my only way is not to think about
it that's why I don't have any pictures
around my house because if I think about
all that stuff that all the people that
have gone and people that I've lost and
the blood and the gore that I did see
you know I wouldn't be able to sit here
and have this conversation with you
I wouldn't be able to do it
[Music]
first of all you can never you can never
stand in my shoes I don't care who you
are I married him I can't turn around
and say I didn't know what he was doing
you know I mean it just as much as he is
he was starting to go out and he was
killing people
so as he would kill one person he would
get that more pumped up to go after the
next person life in the Mafia takes
precedence over wives and children it's
a promise
to which men swear an oath in blood in a
centuries-old
secret ceremony six years ago
Anthony Russo confronted that choice
mafia or family he'd been one of the
main targets in the FBI's biggest ever
mob roundup on the morning of the raid
on his house his daughter Tony was
asleep command post to all units 6:00
a.m. go ahead and execute 6:00 a.m. go
ahead and execute
[Music]
the FBI says it is conducting what it
calls the biggest mob roundup in New
York history agents fanned out to arrest
more than 100 suspects suspected
mobsters on gambling drug extortion and
murder charges Colombo acting capo
Anthony Russo is charged with the 1993
murder of underboss joseph scopa during
the Colombo family war between the arena
and Persico faction did it make any
sense to you at all what was happening
you'd been arrested before did you think
that this time it was different
I had 63 different charges on the
indictment I knew it was a major issue
it wasn't wasn't gonna be making cop out
two to three years four years five years
and then come home that wasn't happening
you know so I knew was a big thing
especially with the murders did you do
what they said on that list of
indictments yes I I did basically
everything they said I'm out of it
what was your worst nightmare
what your fate might be then life in
prison I'd never see my kids being with
them again and I just came home I was
only home almost three years at the time
I was in and out my whole life basically
I just kept on thinking about my kids
seeing your father arrested like that
you would have had absolutely no idea
about how long he'd be gone and I was
always used to it but then when he came
home the last time me and my brothers
all got extremely close because you had
an age where we were hanging out our dad
we can do things with him go out
together so we got really close did you
have particular views about your
father's decision to cooperate it's a
little too much exposure out here right
now
it's mercy far too many people pants and
up and down I don't want you I don't
want people to keep seeing you I'll be
copied why did you wear such tight pants
they're so tight because he chose to
cooperate with the FBI Tony can now have
a normal father-daughter relationship
[Music]
missionary not so for Maria's Scapa her
father Greg Scarpa jr. was a captain in
the Colombo crime family even when faced
with a long prison sentence he chose to
remain loyal to the Mafia he's been
locked up now for 28 years his daughter
Maria lives alone with her child in a
small apartment in Brooklyn on the day I
saw her she'd arranged a telephone call
to her father in prison he has cancer
and is in poor health I'm actually
worried he hasn't quit yet really
because I don't know if they took him to
the hospital or if it's a lockdown
anything can happen in so many things
hi um I was expecting a phone call from
my dad and I didn't get it yet
I was someone's around if there was a
possible lockdown I'm a little worried
about him everything's normal right now
yeah thank you bye is it very tough when
you don't know what's going on with your
father oh yeah yeah I'll call the prison
over and over again
[Music]
from the tender age of two phone calls
to the prison have been part of Maria's
life
[Music]
you were only two years of age when your
father was on the run and he was
eventually captured by the FBI yeah what
do you remember about that day that day
it was really hard for me um I know a
lot of people won't believe because I
was only two years old that I would have
any memories maybe of something like
that but um I do because of the
closeness me and my father had prior to
that incident and I just remember my mom
screaming and I remember holding on to
him you you were holding on to him
yes and they were wanting to take him
away yes I wanted him you know he was my
main caregiver from the time I was born
because my mom had postpartum depression
and he did so much for me that we got
those bonds like usually a mother will
kind of have with their child the memory
of a day like that never
ready leaves you never I cause there's a
lot of stress later on in life like in
relationships per se you never know when
something somebody or somebody you love
is gonna just be taken from you did you
ever wish that he had like some people
in the Mafia did cooperate with the
authorities and got a lesser sentence so
that you can see more of him to be
honest I know what it is to take that
type of off and I know what it is to
them to take that type of a note and
that's the life you don't seem to bear
any resentment about the way that or how
much that has cost you and your life no
I don't because again it was his life it
was what he was born into and it's just
the way things are
[Music]
his grandpa Maria's family life was
dominated by the presence of her
grandfather Greg Scarpa seen yet unknown
to everyone the grim reaper was for 30
years an FBI Informer extraordinary that
arrangement kept him out of prison and
free to continue his killing spree with
devastating consequences for his
daughter Linda
one November morning in 1991 Linda was
almost killed as she followed her
father's car down their Street at this
intersection
her father was ambushed by a mafia hit
team a big box truck blocks the street
ahead I heard you know some sounds pop
pop like it sounded like fireworks when
I looked up there was guys dressed in
black surrounding my father's car
shooting on him could you determine
whether they'd hit your father's car at
that point I seen my father do one of
these like he kind of just like went
into the seat so I wasn't sure if at
that point he was Hey I didn't know what
was happening I didn't think anyone in
that car would survive because they were
surrounded one of the guys in the
backseat decided that he was gonna try
to fight back so he jumped out and
started shooting this is from your
father's car yes from my father's car
started to shoot at one of the shooters
his gun sprayed into my car so your car
was hit my car was hit on the
passenger's side where my son was
actually sitting and you know well this
is all happening I'm thinking to myself
I have to protect my son I didn't know
what to do I mean I would I was like in
shock I was kind of like kneeling like
this because you know got this gunfire
and what did your father do what did his
car do the driver of his car saw an
opportunity to squeeze through that stop
sign and the the big truck that was
blocking the road it was a very scary
one of the scariest times in my life one
of
[Music]
after the attempt and her father's life
Linda eventually got back to the house
with her nine-month-old son her father
soon followed next thing I know he
walked into the door and he looked at me
and the baby and he had this look of
fear in his eyes like in his face and he
broke down knowing that we were okay
because he as well didn't know if we
were alive or dead
he became very emotional and then that
emotion turned into rage but when you
say tended to rage what do you mean he
turns into this like an irate psycho
maniac like he wanted revenge
and that was it after that point he was
starting to go out and he was killing
people for example he went out one night
and he killed someone and when he came
home he was so excited that he had
killed this person he hung up his coat
on the on the rack and said to my mother
you don't even know who I just got and I
just got Nicky black I shot his nose
right off his fucking face
and I was sitting there on the couch
with my brother and we were like in
shock like you know scary stuff scary
stuff
[Music]
beyond the bullet holes and amid this
shattered glass it was quite a scene on
this quiet Queen Street it sounded like
a string of firecrackers going off and
you know I looked over so did I in a
fine you know yeah like putting his neck
Colombo acting capo Anthony Russo is
charged with the 1993 murder of
underboss when Anthony Russo agreed to
testify against his former colleagues in
the Mafia he was offered a place in the
government's witness protection program
he decided instead to start a new life
in Florida where he met Amy a nurse six
months ago
[Music]
they now live at an undisclosed location
ami how much did you know about
Anthony's life before you actually
started talking nothing he was the guy
that lived three doors down that would
walk his dog past my house when did you
begin to know something more about him
probably about a month in I kept asking
I asked a couple times you know what's
your last name
say last name he would just say did I
ask you your last name I'm like no he
was like don't ask me man he wouldn't
tell me we were actually out one night
we got pulled over and he's like can you
grab my envelope out of the glove box
license and registration he kept in it
and I saw the last name and I just like
was like okay are you SSO just remember
that and so when I got home I went on
the computer and typed it in what was
that moment like when you actually
discovered who Anthony was I was just
shocked at the amount cuz when I typed
in and we had once the image pulled up
and it said mafia I typed in Anthony
Russo mafia and it was just like all the
way you know just article after article
after article and I was like reading
through it and went down to the house
knocked on his door and said you know
can I talk to you and he's yeah she just
turned around and she just hit the pad
the iPad she I mean she shows me an
image of me and she goes just at you
when I said no that's not me I'm
better-looking than that and then I
really it hit me and I'm like this
girl's googling me like him I was really
upset and I basically just told it do me
a favor just leave I said god I can't
believe you just googled me just find
out who I am you think you didn't have
no trust in me you've been with me for
like a month the right hand I'm dumb I
am Who I am and you you don't see what
kind of person I am just being with me
for the last month and how I act and and
she was like why you so upset and I said
just go please I'm like why go home you
know I was like should I maybe have not
said something
so basically you would think either
something wrong yeah you did yeah thanks
I Google everybody I Google everybody is
it ever very easy to explain to somebody
like Amy just what your life was about
how much how much detail can you get
into I didn't actually describe like
what I did if I murdered somebody or
fight beat somebody up with baseball
bats I didn't get it to all that you
know but how it's hard it's hard to
explain to people you know what I did
for a living is it's not easy amy was
your first reaction ever to say this has
got to stop I've got to end this
relationship no not even a thought in my
head that was my thought when she came
he showed me my picture
stop I guess a part of me was like the
stuff was so long ago and it's he just
to me he didn't seem like like I'm not
scared of I tell him all that I'm like
I'm not scared to you but I'm just I'm
not you know I don't feel scared around
him or anything he doesn't you know I
love him
[Music]
Anthony is probably luckier than most
ex-mafia members to gain the trust of
someone like Amy but not everyone can
move on with their lives I'd come to see
Maria's scarper again this is how she
looked in 1988
this home video is one of many made for
her father who is in prison it was
filmed at a large house he once owned on
Staten Island
[Music]
Maria had booked another call to speak
to her father she'd been told when we
last tried
he'd been in hospital for a routine
health check how difficult is it for you
to keep a positive mind and keep this
relationship with your daughter going
[Music]
but the hardest bit of all must be that
you have missed so many significant
parts of their lives given the great
cost this has been to you to your family
and to your daughter did you ever think
of did you ever think of cooperating
with the authorities which may have made
your life possibly easier
[Music]
but the example is that your father did
cooperate with the authorities didn t he
was you know he became quite notorious
for that but when you sit back in some
of your more sober moments t do you
think me and my father have really made
Maria pay a very very heavy price for
what you both have done
[Music]
unlike her father
Maria's grandfather Greg Scarpa senior
was free to be with his children as they
grew up because of the deal he'd made
with the FBI
[Music]
for his daughter Linda these images
bring back nothing but pain her younger
brother Joey was murdered by the Mafia
when he was only 23
her father had died a few months before
of AIDS from an infected blood
transfusion
they are both buried in the same grave
this was originally supposed to be the
spot for my father and my mother it was
just um let's put them together since my
brother was missing him so much it just
it just felt right to keep them together
what sort of a person was he her brother
Joey
my brother was such a funny person and
he was he was really a good-hearted kid
I call him a kid because you know to me
he's always my little brother he always
had nicknames for everybody
he always joked around I was laughed I
mean I always laughed the sad part about
my brother is that he really didn't want
to be involved in this type of life and
even though he wasn't technically in the
Mafia he came from my father's that's
you know my father's son so he he got
involved in street life and when you got
involved in drugs in that life there's
never a good outcome ever for any one of
them your father's life in the Mafia
must have brought you pain which at
times seemed absolutely intolerable okay
when you're living that life and you
know you see your dad going out and
committing these crimes it's it's
obviously hard to deal with and it's
painful but you don't realize the pain
until it actually hits your heart you
know until you actually have someone
murdered
[Music]
do you know how to come off the gas
pedal at all
I do come off the gas oh you don't go
slow I wasn't even going fast I'm
getting attic I need more blood pressure
pills
tell you to slow down you tell me not
going fast I'd arranged to see former
Colombo captain Anthony Russo and his
daughter Toni again for a beautiful
party
perfect the street where his children
grew up is now a place that wants him
good man as you say that's what South
the feds say despite his new life in
Florida his former career is always a
cause of regret
a few months ago his son Michael died of
an accidental drugs overdose he was 20
years of age
the entire neighborhood turned out for a
nighttime vigil Michaels nickname is
still etched on the street in candle wax
I'm just amazed how this stained the
ground like this it's been here sister I
think it might be affirmed in the
natural course of things Anthony here
not supposed to bury your kids kids
supposed to bury you
it's hard for me to talk about him
because I miss him
what do you remember about him
everything
I'm sorry the tragedy must be all the
more terrible for you when you look back
on your life and remember all the time
you spent in prison away from Michael
and your family you know that's like I
said that's a regret that I'm never
gonna look down you you know he was 20
years old when he passed away and I
spent out of his 20 years almost 11 12
years in prison
so basically had 8 9 years of his life
together with him it's it's a hard thing
to accept Tony do you feel that your
father blames himself for Michaels death
I feel like he regrets not being there
I mean blames himself if he did he
really shouldn't I could I know for a
fact he blamed stuff that he wasn't
there enough that he spent all that time
away from him but this was a freak
accident there was no nothing no one
could do did you manage to keep Michael
away from the life that you led well I
try to keep all my kids away from the
life I live I used to tell them all the
time I'm the perfect example of what not
to do in life if you just do the
opposite of what daddy does you guys
would be great a difficult path to tread
to tell yes to tell children not to do
what I'm what you did fathers are
usually examples right I didn't want
them to leave me be a example for them I
was the worst example for them and I
knew it and I used to tell them all the
time it's the time I'd do the same thing
mr. Thomas don't ever bring a guy if I
you ever bring somebody home that
reminds me of me I'm throwing him right
out the door do not do that I said just
go find some geeks and ways to tell Tony
did your father succeed in keeping you
away from the life he led yes I don't
like being around people like that I
don't like watching movies like that or
like anything that does have to do with
anything
[Music]
during my time in Brooklyn I'd met the
daughters of free senior figures in the
Colombo crime family they all live with
the profound consequences of their
father's involvement in the Mafia for
Linda's copper the scars are visible
even today at our final meeting she
agreed to share with me a few memories
captured on old home videos she's been
unable to watch them for years I would
say that it's definitely over 15 years I
haven't watched it my father wanted to
kill my ex-husband because he felt to
kill him he wanted to kill my foot my
ex-husband because this was at a point
where my father was very sick and he
felt that my ex-husband was not treating
me right so he wanted to kill him so he
asked me permission to kill my husband
he asked you permission he couldn't do
it without to kill you're asking me
because he wanted to know that that's
what I wanted he wanted to make sure
that he didn't have to live with any
guilt that that was something that I
would hate him for or not warrant but he
was putting the guilt on you I don't
think he saw it that way but I of course
I said no I don't want you to kill him
I'm relieved to hear it yeah
[Music]
the pictures the de vocht the darkest
memories were rather strangely those of
her coming-of-age party on her 16th
birthday but that was a happy day I mean
my sweet 16 definitely was definitely
was a great party and as they say that
you'll see him smiling from ear to ear
he just couldn't believe that that's
what was said you know just to see him
so happy like that made me happy and you
can see you know the both of us were
just that part right there is just like
I mean look at him does that look like
some money that would hurt somebody you
know he was just I mean to me he's an
extraordinary person extraordinary man
not just I think made a lot of mistakes
but look at him I mean he was the love
of my life he was you could sing it I
mean he was chewing gum he never chewed
bone that sound nervous he was you look
bad do you think that was one of the
some happiest times of your growing up
life oh yeah
it was a good day
[Music]
[Applause]
but looking back I mean I had everything
right there
[Music]
[Applause]
your mommy's bright and shining star
you're the spirit of Christmas next time
you seem to be saying that the betrayal
of talking to the authorities is almost
as bad as the infidelity yes I do
believe that I do believe that I meet
the wives and we gain unprecedented
access to a wedding in a secret
community
[Music]
you